documentation/format.md, before:

# Smolcert format

The certificates specified here are encoded as CBOR arrays. The exact specification is available in
the file `spec.cddl` in the root of this repository. The CBOR array contains all fields in a specific
order to reduce size and make parsing more performant. Unused fields are to be filled with values 
representing the empty state. This only possible for the field `validity`, which fills its subfields
with 0 in case it should not be set, and the field `extension` which uses an empty CBOR array as empty
value.

## Handling of Strings

In all fields which are considered to be strings the following rules apply. All strings must be
valid UTF-8. Other encodings are not allowed. The UTF-8 encoded strings must apply the (security 
considerations)[http://unicode.org/reports/tr36/] of the unicode consortium.

## Absent fields

It may happen that a field is absent. For example during creation of the signature, the signature field
itself needs to be absent. In this case the field is filled with a value of major type 7 and simple value
22. This value (0xF6), signals a simple `NULL` value in cbor. It is currently only valid to set the fields
`signature` and `extensions` to this value. Although it for a valid certificate it doesn't make sense
to set `extensions` to `NULL`, as this certificate then would not have any usage.

## Fields

### serial_number

The serial number must not be 0. Furthermore within a trust chain the serial number must be unique.
There must not be two certificates signed by the same entity with the same serial number. This requires
the use of a database of issued serial numbers by the signing entity.

### issuer

The issuer field must be a UTF-8 string identifying the issuing entity. The issuing entity is the
certificate containing the public key belonging to the private which signed this certificate.

### subject

The subject field must be a UTF-8 string identifying the entity which posses the private key belonging
to the public key specified in this certificate. The subject field should be unique across valid 
certificates within this trust chain.

### validity

Certificates may specify time based restrictions on their validity. The field validity contains
two sub fields called `NotBefore` and `NotAfter`. Each of these fields represents a point in time
in seconds since epoch (UNIX time). `NotBefore` must have a smaller value than `NotAfter` except if
both are set to 0.
Setting both fields to 0 is valid and signals explicitly that there are no time based restrictions
on the validity of the certificate.

### public_key

The public key must be a byte array representing a valid ed25519 public key of 32 bytes.

### signature

The signature must be a byte array representing a valid ed25519 signature of 64 bytes.

### extensions

Extensions must be an array of extension objects.

## Extension format

Extensions are represented by CBOR arrays, which have all fields in a specific order.

### oid

An identifier representing the type of extension. Some OIDs are specified. # TODO specify range for custom OIDs

### critical

A boolean values which specifies the criticality of this extension. The interpretation of this is specific
to the extension type identified by the OID.

### value

Value is a byte array containing the OID specific value. This field may contain a UTF-8 string, another
CBOR structure or anything else. Parsing, interpretation and validation is specific to the OID.

Commit message:

Updated specification to reflect that smolcert has versions which indicate which algorithms to use

documentation/format.md, after:

# Smolcert format

The certificates specified here are encoded as CBOR arrays. The exact specification is available in
the file `spec.cddl` in the root of this repository. The CBOR array contains all fields in a specific
order to reduce size and make parsing more performant. Unused fields are to be filled with values 
representing the empty state. This only possible for the field `validity`, which fills its subfields
with 0 in case it should not be set, and the field `extension` which uses an empty CBOR array as empty
value.

## Handling of Strings

In all fields which are considered to be strings the following rules apply. All strings must be
valid UTF-8. Other encodings are not allowed. The UTF-8 encoded strings must apply the (security 
considerations)[http://unicode.org/reports/tr36/] of the unicode consortium.

## Absent fields

It may happen that a field is absent. For example during creation of the signature, the signature field
itself needs to be absent. In this case the field is filled with a value of major type 7 and simple value
22. This value (0xF6), signals a simple `NULL` value in cbor. It is currently only valid to set the fields
`signature` and `extensions` to this value. Although for a valid certificate it doesn't make sense
to set `extensions` to `NULL`, as this certificate then would not have any usage.

## Fields

### version

This field signals the version of smolcert used for this certificate. smolcert sees choices
of its cryptographic algorithms like asymetric cryptography, signature algorithms etc. as part
of its version and not negotiable via protocol or format descriptions. The goal is to have sensible,
secure choices of these algorithms at specification time. When the need arises in the future to choose
different algorithms, this requires a new version of the smolcert specification.

### serial_number

The serial number must not be 0. Furthermore within a trust chain the serial number must be unique.
There must not be two certificates signed by the same entity with the same serial number. This requires
the use of a database of issued serial numbers by the signing entity.

### issuer

The issuer field must be a UTF-8 string identifying the issuing entity. The issuing entity is the
certificate containing the public key belonging to the private which signed this certificate.

### subject

The subject field must be a UTF-8 string identifying the entity which posses the private key belonging
to the public key specified in this certificate. The subject field should be unique across valid 
certificates within this trust chain.

### validity

Certificates may specify time based restrictions on their validity. The field validity contains
two sub fields called `NotBefore` and `NotAfter`. Each of these fields represents a point in time
in seconds since epoch (UNIX time). `NotBefore` must have a smaller value than `NotAfter` except if
both are set to 0.
Setting both fields to 0 is valid and signals explicitly that there are no time based restrictions
on the validity of the certificate.

### public_key

The public key must be a byte array representing a valid ed25519 public key of 32 bytes.

### signature

The signature must be a byte array representing a valid ed25519 signature of 64 bytes.

### extensions

Extensions must be an array of extension objects.

## Extension format

Extensions are represented by CBOR arrays, which have all fields in a specific order.

### oid

An identifier representing the type of extension. Some OIDs are specified. # TODO specify range for custom OIDs

### critical

A boolean values which specifies the criticality of this extension. The interpretation of this is specific
to the extension type identified by the OID.

### value

Value is a byte array containing the OID specific value. This field may contain a UTF-8 string, another
CBOR structure or anything else. Parsing, interpretation and validation is specific to the OID.
